.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" DRI: David Reid, dreid@apple.com
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd December 22, 2006
.Dt CALADMIN 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm caladmin
.Nd Calendar Server Administrative Interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -c Ar caldavd.plist
.Op Fl -f Ar format
.Op Fl Ar -help
.Op Fl -o Ar options
.Ao Ar command Ac
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an administrative tool for the Darwin Calendar Server.  It provides
several types of statistics for the Calendar Server and some common 
administrative operations.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl -help
Display usage information.
.It Fl c, Fl -config=
Path to the configuration file for the server you wish to inspect or 
manipulate.
.It Fl f, Fl -format=
The format you would like the output in.  Common formats are 'plain'
and 'plist'.
.It Fl o, Fl -option=
Options for the formatter.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It group
.It user
.It resource
Each of these commands prints statistics for each user, group, or
resource.  Statistics may include but are not limited to, quota and
disk usage statistics.
.It purge
This can be used to keep your store from becoming unnecessarily large
by deleting old events.
.It stats
Generate some overall usage statistics for the server.
.It logs
Analyze the log file to gather even more.
.El
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was first introduced as part of Darwin 9 and Mac OS 10.5.
.Sh BUGS
This version of
.Nm
is still in development and testing.
