.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd April 24, 2009
.Dt CALDAV_UTILITY 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm caldav_utility
.Nd Darwin Calendar Server Resource Utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -config Ar config_file
.Op Fl -resource Ar guid
.Op Fl -search Ar search-term
.Op Fl -read-property Ar dav_property
.Op Fl -list-read-delegates
.Op Fl -list-write-delegates
.Op Fl -add-read-delegate Ar guid
.Op Fl -add-write-delegate Ar guid
.Op Fl -remove-delegate Ar guid
.Op Fl -set-auto-schedule Ar True|False
.Op Fl -get-auto-schedule
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool for manipulating delegate assignments for resources and
locations, as well as specifying whether they auto-accept scheduling
invitations.  It must be run as root on a host with a running
calendar server.  On the command line you first select a resource
to use (via the
.Fl -resource
argument), and follow that with one or
more commands.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h, -help
Displays usage information
.It Fl f, -config Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.  Defaults to /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist.
.It Fl -resource Ar guid
Specifies the resource the following operations should be applied to.
.It Fl s, -search Ar search_term
Search for records matching search_term.
.It Fl -read-property Ar dav_property
Prints the value of the dav_property on the current resource.  The format of
the dav_property is "namespace#property".  Examples:
"DAV:#alternate-URI-set" or "http://calendarserver.org/ns/#record-type".
.It Fl -list-read-delegates
Prints the list of principals that have read-only delegate access for the current resource.
.It Fl -list-write-delegates
Prints the list of principals that have read-write delegate access for the current resource.
.It Fl -add-read-delegate Ar guid
Adds a principal to the group of principals which have read-only delegate access for the current resource.  Adding a principal as a read-only delegate removes read-write access, if read-write access had previously been granted.
.It Fl -add-write-delegate Ar guid
Adds a principal to the group of principals which have read-write delegate access for the current resource.
.It Fl -remove-delegate Ar guid
Strips a principal of delegate access for the current resource.
.It Fl -set-auto-schedule Ar True|False
Setting auto-schedule to True will cause the current resource to automatically
accept any scheduling invitations.  A False value means it's up to one of the
read-write delegates for the resource to accept/decline invitations.
.It Fl -get-auto-schedule
Prints the current auto-schedule state of the current resource.
.El
.Sh USAGE
.Nm
processes the command line options in order, allowing you to chain multiple
operations.  Each time you specify the
.Fl -resource
option, that resource becomes the "current" one.  From then on, each subsequent
option applies to the current resource, until you
specify the
.Fl -resource
option again.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Assign two read-write delegates and display the list of read-write delegates:
caldav_utility --resource 44234B00-5266-11DD-B22C-A07C87F02F6B --add-write-delegate 98248B00-5266-11DD-B22C-A07C87F02F6B --add-write-delegate 39838B00-5266-11DD-B22C-A07C87F02F6B --list-write-delegates
.It Turn on auto-scheduling for a resource, and confirm the setting:
caldav_utility --resource 44234B00-5266-11DD-B22C-A07C87F02F6B --set-auto-schedule True --get-auto-schedule
.It Turn off auto-scheduling for multiple resources:
caldav_utility --resource 44234B00-5266-11DD-B22C-A07C87F02F6B --set-auto-schedule False --resource 98344B00-5266-11DD-B22C-A07C87F02F6B --set-auto-schedule False
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The Calendar Server configuration file.
.It /Library/CalendarServer/Data/calendaruserproxy.sqlite
The server's proxy database, used to keep track of which principals have read-only and read-write delegate access to other principals/resources.
.It /Library/CalendarServer/Data/resourceinfo.sqlite
The server's resource info database, used to store additional resource information such as auto-schedule settings.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8
