.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" DRI: Wilfredo Sanchez, wsanchez@apple.com
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd June 16, 2006
.Dt CALDAVD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm caldavd
.Nd Calendar Server Control Interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl v
.Ar command
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a front end to the Darwin Calendar Server.  The Darwin Calendar
server is a web server which implements the HTTP, WebDAV, WebDAV ACL,
and CalDAV protocols.
.Pp
.Nm
is a simple tool for starting, stopping, and restarting the server. It
takes a single argument, (
.Ar command )
which describes the desired action.
.Sh COMMANDS
The allows commands are:
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Ar start
Starts the server.
.It Ar stop
Stops the server.
.It Ar restart
Restarts the server.  If the server is not running, simply starts the server.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The main configuration file for caldavd.  It is an XML property list
in server options such as the port to bind to, whether to use SSL, and
the names of other files can specified.
.It /etc/caldavd/repository.xml
An XML file describing the basic set of resources that are in the URL
namespace of the server, and which underlying classes control these
resources.
.It /etc/caldavd/server.pem
PEM-format server keys for use with SSL.
.It /Library/CalendarServer/Documents
The location of static files which are exposed into the URL namespace
of the server, as well as files which are used as a backing store for
dynamic and managed resources on the server.
.It /var/log/caldavd/server.log
The server's main log file.
.It /var/run/caldavd.pid
The server's process ID file.
.It /usr/share/caldavd
Server implementation and support files.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr httpd 8
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
is expected to comply with RFC 2445 (iCalendar), RFC 2518 (WebDAV),
RFC 3744 (WebDAV ACL), draft-dusseault-caldav-12 (CalDAV), and
draft-desruisseaux-caldav-sched-01 (CalDAV Scheduling).
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was first introduced as part of Darwin 9 and Mac OS 10.5.
.Sh BUGS
This version of
.Nm
is still in development and testing.
