.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2014 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd January 14, 2013
.Dt CALENDARSERVER_CONFIG 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm calendarserver_config
.Nd Calendar Server Configuration Utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -config Ar file
.Op key ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
stores and retrieves configuration values for calendar server.  It's primary
purpose is to carry out operations on behalf of the Apple OS X Server
administration application; in this mode of operation is reads stdin for
keys provided in plist format, and writes results to stdout, also in plist
form.  For interactive use, you can list one or more keys as command line
arguments.
.Pp
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h, -help
Displays usage information
.It Fl f, -config Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.
Defaults to /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/private/etc/caldavd/caldavd-apple.plist on Apple servers, /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist on other servers.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Retrieve the value for EnableCalDAV
.Pp
.Dl "calendarserver_config EnableCalDAV"
.Pp
Set EnableCalDAV to True
.Pp
.Dl "calendarserver_config EnableCalDAV=True"
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /Applications/Server.app/Contents/ServerRoot/private/etc/caldavd/caldavd-apple.plist
The static Calendar Server configuration file (not to be edited).
.It /Library/Server/Calendar and Contacts/Config/caldavd-system.plist
The configuration file which stores local overriding values (which calendarserver_config modifies).
.El
