.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2014 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd June 17, 2009
.Dt CALENDARSERVER_MIGRATE_RESOURCES 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm calendarserver_migrate_resources
.Nd Calendar Server resource and location migration utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -config Ar file
.Op Fl -verbose
.Op Fl -help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool for migrating resource and location records from
OpenDirectory into the calendar server's internal directory.
.Pp
.Nm
should be run as a user with the same privileges as the Calendar
Server itself, as it needs to read and write data that belongs to the
server.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h, -help
Display usage information
.It Fl f, -config Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.
Defaults to /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist.
.It Fl v, -verbose
Print progress information including the names of resources and
locations being migrated.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The Calendar Server configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8
