.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2014 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd June 17, 2009
.Dt CALENDARSERVER_PURGE_PRINCIPALS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm calendarserver_purge_principals
.Nd Calendar Server deprovisioned user clean-up utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -completely
.Op Fl -config Ar file
.Op Fl -dry-run
.Op Fl -verbose
.Op Fl -help
.Ar guid
.Op guid ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool for removing one or more principals' future events, proxy
assignments, and contacts from the calendar server.  By default,
events in the past are retained, but any ongoing events are canceled.
.Pp
.Nm
should be run as a user with the same privileges as the Calendar
Server itself, as it needs to read and write data that belongs to the
server.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h, -help
Display usage information
.It Fl c, -completely
Delete/cancel all events
.It Fl f, -config Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.
Defaults to /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist.
.It Fl n, -dry-run
Calculate and display how many events and contacts would be removed,
but don't actually remove them.
.It Fl v, -verbose
Print progress information.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The Calendar Server configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8
