.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd November 6, 2008
.Dt CALENDARSERVER_EXPORT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm calendarserver_export
.Nd Calendar Server export tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar config_file
.Op Fl o Ar output_file
.Op Fl c Ar collection
.Op Fl H Ar home
.Op Fl r Ar record
.Op Fl u Ar user
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool that generates a single iCalendar file containing all of the
iCalendar components found from all specified input sources, providing
server administrators a means by which to export data from the
Calandar Server into a format that can be viewed and/or manipulated by
other tools.  Multiple input sources may be specified; the resulting
iCalendar data will contain the combined data from all sources.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h, -help
Displays usage information
.It Fl f, -config Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.
.It Fl o, -output Ar FILE
Write resulting iCalendar data to the given file.
.It Fl c, -collection Ar DIRECTORY
Read iCalendar objects from the calendar collection at the given path.
.It Fl h, -home Ar DIRECTORY
Read iCalendar objects from all calendar collections within the
calendar home at the given path.
.It Fl r, -record Ar TYPE:NAME
Read iCalendar objects from all calendar collections within the
calendar home for the directory record of the given type with the
given name.
.It Fl u, -user Ar NAME
Read iCalendar objects from all calendar collections within the
calendar home for the directory user with the given name.  This is
shorthand for
.Fl r Ar user:NAME .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The Calendar Server configuration file.
.It /Library/CalendarServer/Documents
The server's document root, which is the used as the backing store for
the HTTP resources on the server.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8
.Sh STANDARDS
The iCalendar data generated by
.Nm
is expected to comply with RFC 2445 (iCalendar).
