.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2015 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd May 11, 2013
.Dt CALENDARSERVER_MANAGE_TIMEZONES 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm calendarserver_manage_timezones
.Nd Calendar Server timezone database management utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl x Ar file
.Op Fl z Ar directory
.Op Fl -tzvers Ar tzdb-version
.Op Fl -url Ar url
.Op Fl -refresh
.Op Fl -refreshpkg
.Op Fl -create
.Op Fl -update
.Op Fl -list
.Op Fl -changed Ar date
.Op Fl -cache
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
This utility will create, update, or list an XML timezone database
summary XML file, or refresh timezone data from IANA, or refresh
timezone data from another timezone server.
.Pp
It can also be used to update the server's own zoneinfo database
from IANA.
.Pp
It should be run as a user with the same privileges as the Calendar
Server itself, as it needs to read and write data that belongs to the
server. If using the --refreshpkg option it will need to write to
the actual python package data so will need to be run as root.
.Pp
Actions to perform are specified via the options below.  Only one
action is allowed.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h
Displays usage information
.It Fl f Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.
Defaults to /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist.
.It Fl x Ar FILE
Update the timezone database XML file at the specified location.
Defaults to timezones.xml in the zoneinfo directory.
.It Fl z Ar DIRECTORY
Path to a zoneinfo directory where timezone data is stored.
Defaults to the configuration file's Data/zoneinfo directory.
.It Fl -tzvers Ar version
Name of IANA timezone data version to use (e.g., '2013a').
.It Fl -url
If the server is configured as a secondary timezone zone, use this URL
as the URL of the secondary server to pull timezone data from.
.El
.Sh ACTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl -refresh
Update the zoneinfo data from the IANA registry.
.It Fl -refreshpkg
Update the server's zoneinfo package data from the IANA registry.
This updates twistedcaldav.zoneinfo and should only be used by
server developers wishing to update the server repository.
.It Fl -create
Create a new timezone database XML file based on the timezone data
currently in the zoneinfo directory.
.It Fl -update
Update the timezone database XML file based on the timezone data
currently in the zoneinfo directory.
.It Fl -list
List the timezones specified in the timezone database XML file.
.It Fl -changed Ar date
List the timezones in the timezone database XML file that have changed
since the specified date value (YYYYMMHH).
.It Fl -cache
Update the server's timezone database by pulling data from a primary
timezone server.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Update the server's timezone data from the latest IANA data:
.Pp
.Dl "calendarserver_manage_timezones --refesh"
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The Calendar Server configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8
