.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd Januar 13, 2012
.Dt CALENDARSERVER_SHELL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm calendarserver_shell
.Nd Calendar Server interactive administrative shell
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl f Ar config_file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
provides an interactive shell that can be used to view and manipulate
Calendar Server data.
.Nm
operates directly on the back-end Calendar Server data store, and does
not connect to the Calendar Server itself.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h, -help
Displays usage information
.It Fl f, -config Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The Calendar Server configuration file.
.It /Library/CalendarServer/Documents
The server's document root, which is the used as the backing store for
the HTTP resources on the server.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8
