.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2014 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd Feb 9, 2012
.Dt CALENDARSERVER_MANAGE_PUSH 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm calendarserver_manage_push
.Nd Calendar Server push management utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -config Ar file
.Ar userid
.Op userid ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool for displaying the CalDAV and CardDAV resources a user is
currently subscribed to via APNS.
.Pp
.Nm
should be run as a user with the same privileges as the Calendar
Server itself, as it needs to read data that belongs to the server.
.Nm
takes a list of userids as arguments and then displays the resources
currently subscribed to, as well as an identifier of the subscribed
device and timestamp of last subscription.
.Pp
A userid may be specified in record "short name" form.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h, -help
Displays usage information
.It Fl f, -config Ar FILE
Use the Calendar Server configuration specified in the given file.
Defaults to /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/caldavd/caldavd.plist
The Calendar Server configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8
