.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\" you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\" Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\" distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\" WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.Dd April 20, 2009
.Dt CARDDAVD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm carddavd
.Nd Darwin Address Book Server Control Interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hX 
.Op Fl u Ar username
.Op Fl g Ar groupname
.Op Fl T Ar twistd
.Op Fl f Ar carddavd.plist
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a front end to the Darwin Address Book Server.  The Darwin Address Book 
Server is a web server which implements the HTTP, WebDAV, WebDAV ACL,
and CardDAV protocols.
.Pp
.Nm
is a simple tool for starting the server.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Fl h
Displays usage information
.It Fl X
Starts the server but does not daemonize it.
.It Fl u Ar username
Drops privileges to the given username.
.It Fl g Ar groupname
Drops privileges to the given groupname.
.It Fl f Ar carddavd.plist
Specifies the path of the configuration file to read.
.It Fl T Ar twistd
Specifies the path to the twistd binary.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It /etc/carddavd/carddavd.plist
The Address Book Server configuration file.  It is an XML property list
specifying server options such as the port to bind to, whether to use
SSL, and the names of other configuration files.
.It /etc/carddavd/server.pem
PEM-format server keys for use with SSL.
.It /Library/AddressBookServer/Documents
The server's document root, which is used as the backing store for
the HTTP resources on the server.
.It /var/log/carddavd/access.log
The server's access log file, in a format similar to Apache HTTPd's
access log.
.It /var/log/carddavd/error.log
The server's main log file.
.It /var/run/carddavd.pid
The server's process ID file.
.It /usr/share/carddavd
Server implementation and support files.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr caldavd 8 ,
.Xr httpd 8 ,
.Xr serveradmin 8
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
complies with
draft-ietf-vcarddav-carddav (CardDAV),
RFC 2518 (WebDAV) and
RFC 3744 (WebDAV ACL).
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was first introduced as part of Darwin 10 and Mac OS 10.6.
.Sh BUGS
This version of
.Nm
is still in development and testing.
